Imagine waking up one day, realizing that everything you ever wanted to buy is in your hands. Would that not be great? However, the satisfaction of buying things would be gone. For a lot of people, shopping is not just about buying the necessary things, but it is more of an enjoyable process. Shopping plays a significant role in every human being's life. It gives satisfaction, keeps people motivated, and reduces depression.

To begin with, the satisfaction of buying things is a helpful way for people to detach from reality, and it is an enjoyable process for people of all ages, even children. The change that comes with the process is immaculate. For example, buying new heels, a new expensive bag, or even new makeup gives individuals a feeling of change, contributing to their good mood and relaxation. Women certainly tend to use shopping as a way of detaching from all the pressure they go through from parenting, working, or even academic pressure.

In addition, shopping helps people to be motivated, especially when they are going through a lot of changes in life. The feeling of having your own money to spend without anyone judging the way you spend it gives every person a huge motivation to keep working, no matter how many issues they are dealing with at work. When you look at it from a different angle, you will find that the majority of people are dealing with issues at work, but the whole reason that keeps them going is the satisfaction of buying anything they wanted at the beginning of every month. This says a lot about the positive side of unnecessary shopping.

While it is true that unnecessary shopping could cause financial troubles for many, a study conducted in 2023 showed that 95 percent of the population is benefiting from this process in fighting depression, stress, and many other problems. The feeling they get after buying things gives them the ability to be in control. Even if they cannot control their feelings and the problems they are facing, they get to control the things they buy and the way they spend their money freely, which reduces stress and anxiety.

In conclusion, the happiness you get after buying something you do not need is often greater than the happiness from buying something necessary for life. It improves mental health for many, gives satisfaction, and keeps people motivated. No matter what issues they face in their work environment, they will remember the feeling of a new purchase and keep working hard to get whatever they have ever wanted. The way you spend your money is your own choice, whether you want to detach from reality or for entertainment reasons.